# Counting Techniques

   - **Factorial** \
     A positive integer factorial is the product of each natural number up to and including the integer.
     If n is a positive integer, then

          n! = n (n-1) (n-2) ... (3)(2)(1)
          n! = n (n-1)!

     A special case is 0!

         0! = 1
   
   - **Permutation** \
     A permutation is an arrangement of objects without repetition where order is important.
     Permutations using all the objects
     A permutation of n objects, arranged into one group of size n, without repetition, and order being important is:

         nPn = P(n,n) = n!
     Example: Find all permutations of the letters "ABC"

         ABC  ACB  BAC  BCA  CAB  CBA
     Permutations of some of the objects
     A permutation of n objects, arranged in groups of size r, without repetition, and order being important is:

         nPr = P(n,r) = n! / (n-r)!
   
- **Combinations**
     A combination is an arrangement of objects without repetition where order is not important.

     **Note:** The difference between a permutation and a combination is not whether there is repetition or not -- there must not be repetition with either, and if there is repetition, you can not use the formulas for permutations or combinations. The only difference in the definition of a permutation and a combination is whether order is important.
     A combination of n objects, arranged in groups of size r, without repetition, and order being important is:

         nCr = C(n,r) = n! / ( (n-r)! * r! )

- **Tree Diagram**
     A graphical device used to list all possibilities of a sequence of events in a systematic way.
     Pascal's Triangle
     Combinations are used in the binomial expansion theorem from algebra to give the coefficients of the expansion (a+b)^n. They also form a pattern known as P        **Pascal's Triangle.**

                                1
                              1   1
                            1   2   1
                          1   3   3   1
                        1   4   6   4   1
                      1   5  10   10  5   1
                    1   6  15  20  15   6   1
                  1   7  21  35  35  21   7   1
     Each element in the table is the sum of the two elements directly above it. Each element is also a combination. The n value is the number of the row (start        counting at zero) and the r value is the element in the row (start counting at zero).
